Hello again my friend in this video we're following our play around by implementing a follow camera.
So let's jump in to get started.
OK.
As we move around we need our camera to move with us.
What we could do is we could just grab the main camera and child that to the player by dragging it over
the top of the player.
Now wherever the play goes the camera will go.
That's going to work right.
Well sort of as you can see when we move around the camera is also taking on the rotation of the player
as the player rotates.
And it's kind of cool for about 10 seconds until you start to get really dizzy.
So that's not what we want.
So we have a problem how do we look the camera in position without it moving around but still follow
the player as the player moves.
I'm just going to undo my camera drag just there.
And while I'm here I'm going to delete target because we need it.
I get what we need to do is create a follow camera.
Let me show you a slide fully camera he's a player looking happy.
There's our camera pointing at the player.
Now what we need to do is create a follow follow camera game object that we can place at the exact same
position of the player and then to child the camera to the follow camera and have this relationship
this child parent relationship with a camera.
The one we looked through is the child of the follow camera or our game object.
We could call it whatever we wanted here we could call it the thing that follows the player but we're
going to call it a follow camera.
And this fixed distance and angle is something that we can tweak and tune we can rotate the camera a
bit down or the up move it closer move it further away but always in relation to where our follow camera
game object is.
So let's jump back to unity and right click Create empty and name this follow camera excellent day.
So we've got a follow camera what we need to do here is to create a script.
So under our scripts folder right click Create to see sharp scripts.
I will call this follow camera and then drag the following camera script on top of the follow camera
game objects.
So now you can see that fellow camera is a component.
Let's open up follow the camera Oh looks good.
Time for a challenge.
And here's our challenge.
Attach these script to our flow camera game object.
Well we just did that so I've given you one for free.
Yay.
And then we want to serialize a variable called target.
And within our update method make our cameras position be the value of the target position.
So it's going to be one line within update which is camera's position equals target's position.
And then of course don't forget to assign the player's game object as the target.
So I haven't given you a lot of clues on the syntax for this.
This is one of those are intermediate challenges that I'm expecting that you kind of note already.
If you don't know it's not a problem at all.
We'll go through it together in a moment.
So take on that challenge do your best and I'll see you back here when you've given it your best shot.
Okey dokey for now we're not going to use our start method or our commenting on update.
We will create ourselves a nice new shiny variable which will be serialized so serialize field and this
will be of type trance form and we'll call this target was it of type transform what we need to know
the position we need to know the transform if we click on our flat.
You can see the transform here.
We want to know that transform we want to know the details of that.
So that is why we've made it of type transform.
And then within update all we need to do is a trance form with a small t dot position.
So that's saying the position of whatever the following camera script is attached to will equal target.
This is our variable we've just made target dot position.
And if he didn't do the challenge he's a good sport for you just to pause and do the last step in the
process to hook all this up together back in unity.
So jump over to you need a little mini challenge for you hook it up so that our camera is following
our player OK so first of all click on follow camera we need to drag our main camera to be a child remember
my slide from before.
Now the main camera is a child to the follow camera.
And while I'm here I'm going to click on follow a camera and drag that down into assets to make that
a prefab it's really time for us to tidy these up a little bit.
So we've got scene scripts.
I'm gonna make a new folder high level folder here create folder of code is just game.
These are things that just belong to the game player goes into game and flow camera goes into game.
So now we have follow a camera as a prefab so clicking on follow a camera you can see that we have none
as target click on my selector find the player record is drag the player on over player and then I'm
going to apply that back to the prefab.
So up here under prefab open select overrides click on overrides and then apply all.
So now all of that is part of the follow camera prefab.
Excellent let's just see how that looks.
Click on play and moving.
Yes.
So success.
We are moving the camera it's way off in the distance.
Okay.
Let's get in and tune our camera a little bit.
So click out of play mode just move our screens around a little bit.
I was going to put my game window next to my scene window so that I can get my same window looking a
bit fuller.
OK.
Is wiggling around a little bit to get in position roughly where I want the camera about there not looking
too much in the distance but you could do that if you wanted.
And not too far down.
So round about the decent angle we'll tune it again a bit more later on.
Now the first thing I want to do is to have my follow camera exactly on top of the player because we're
making a relationship between the camera and the follow camera.
So the follow camera needs to start on the player.
An easy way to do that is to hop on the player go to transform right click copy component back over
onto our follow a camera and on transform right click and paste component values.
That means it's now sitting right on top of our player.
Then click on main camera.
We've done this before we got to game object align with view blink.
So that is now aligned.
You can see
if I click on follow a camera right on top of the player if I click on main camera it's looking at the
follow camera.
Now click on play play our game window pops up and we can run around and that's look pretty good eh
not too bad at all.
I like it.
I like that and I'm not going to get dizzy as the camera spins around.
OK.
So feel free to tune that however your heart desires.
But for now we've got movement of our player we've got our camera moving around let's turn our attention
to having our player look a little bit more interesting in some upcoming videos.
Great work and I'll see you again shortly.